# pipelines

 The purpose of these pipelines is to allow for integrated CyTOF analysis from raw FCS files to an initial high-level analysis. Findings ideally should be assesed robustly via manual gating, iterative clustering with different random seeds, and different clustering algorithms. The templates folder contains example .csv and .xlsx files used throughout the analysis to increase ease of use. The templates folder also contains a spillover matrix that can be used to compensate CyTOF data.

 CyTOF_Pipeline.Rmd does not include batch correction and is appropriate for datasets that do not span multiple barcode plates or do not have appreciable batch effects.

 For most datasets, CyTOF_Pipeline_BatchCorrection.Rmd is recommended. This pipeline will first take you through data pre-processing which involves bead-based normalization, bead removal, debarcoding, and file organization. Batch effects are then assessed and corrected for using cyCombine (https://biosurf.org/cyCombine_ref_manual.html). While CyTOF data has less noise than other single cell proteomic datasets such a flow cytometry, comepnsation is another useful step for cleaning up signal in data. Finally, downstream analysis including dimensionality reduction and unsupervised clustering is performed using CATALYST (https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/workflows/vignettes/cytofWorkflow/inst/doc/cytofWorkflow.html#cluster-merging-and-annotation). Downstream analysis can be (and shoudl be) further customized into more granular analyses.
